speak now or forever hold your peace
in movies and tv shows this phrase
signals someone to jump up from their
seat
or crash through a stained glass window
and disrupt the wedding by professing
their love for the bride or groom
creating chaos and hilarity makes for a
great scene
but the sentence if anyone can show just
cause why this couple cannot lawfully be
joined together in matrimony
let them speak now or forever hold their
peace
is used in real weddings and is usually
followed by
crickets not insects that object to your
happy betrothal
i mean silence but what happens if
someone speaks up at this moment
maybe your future mother-in-law can't
help but beg her baby one more time
sweetie you can't do this the whole
crowd might gasp but you'll look
cool as a cucumber as you calmly point
to the adverb
lawfully sorry barbara but your
disapproval of your child's choice for a
lifelong mate
is not legal tender there are no laws
governing emotions
therefore your objection does not meet
the stated criteria
then you serenely turn around and resume
your wedding
if your logic isn't enough to calm
barber down well
sorry can't help you with that one but
if love and disapproval
aren't valid reasons to object to a
marriage then what is
how did all those movies get it wrong
the movies got it wrong
because romance is the engine driving
romantic comedy
screenwriters can't get enough dramatic
plot twists
so they love the good old interrupted
wedding scene
but real life brides and grooms don't
you see
weddings are like a theatrical
performance there's an audience
fancy clothes and the key players recite
scripted lines
but unlike the stage people who wrote
the rules for a marriage ceremony
didn't want any drama or surprise
endings so
they put that passage in there part of
the ceremony dates back to the 1500s
back then it was nearly impossible to
check up on a suspicious bride or groom
you couldn't check their old tweets or
run their license through a database
to see if there was a lawful reason why
they shouldn't marry
reasons like already being married to
someone else
oh yeah that's pretty important huh
being too
closely related because well obviously
if one party was being forced into the
marriage against their will
so untie him dear he's just not that
into you
the bride or groom might be an imposter
or con man on the run
speak now gave people one last chance to
bring these issues up
wait one last chance how many chances
did they get before that
glad i asked and the answer is three
typically the parish who would hold the
wedding would announce the upcoming
marriage
every sunday for three weeks thus
allowing interested parties
and energetic gossips ample time to
investigate
these announcements were called bans you
can still hear that word in a kind of
announcement you might see
today a banner okay so that explains the
law
but what about the in-laws an in-law
is someone related only by marriage
after the wedding
your wife's brother becomes your
brother-in-law and so on
and that brings us back to barbara soon
to be in-laws star in many of the
stories you'll hear about nuptial
objections like the one where the mother
of the groom faked an allergic reaction
right in the middle of the ceremony
that's a good idea write that down
barbara
the woman halted the vows and insisted
on being taken to the hospital
immediately okay sure maybe her husband
could take her
or uncle joe no no no she somehow
managed to convince the groom
and bride's father both key players in
this whole shindig
to take her how she accomplished this is
beyond my imagination
but we'll get to that with the bride's
father struggling to find hospital
parking
the bride had no one to walk her down
the aisle worse
the groom was keeping his mom company in
the emergency waiting room
i mean a good son yes but seriously
so even if our bride convinced her uncle
to escort her down the aisle
there was no one waiting for her at the
end
kind of sounds like an urban myth
doesn't it one of those endless
monster-in-law jokes that have given
stand-up comedians material for years
think about it why wouldn't this lady's
own husband driver
or one of the other guests or maybe an
ambulance
most of the objection tales you hear are
just that
tall tales but what if someone runs into
your wedding with a legal objection
can they stop the ceremony then in
extreme circumstances
like they bring along an officer who
hauls the bride or groom off to jail
they might stop the ceremony but they
won't stop the marriage
in the 1500s when the speak now or
forever hold your peace clause was
drafted
couples weren't legally married until
they were pronounced husband and wife
at the end of the ceremony nowadays all
legal matters including marriage
are handled by the state couples get
their wedding license at a courthouse
before the fancy wedding service ever
takes place
that means brides and grooms are already
married
technically before you see him at the
wedding one exception to this can't stop
the marriage rule
might be if you attend a wedding at a
courthouse where a judge officiates
but careful now courthouses have lots of
law enforcement around
and if you don't hold your peace you
might be arrested for disturbing someone
else's
okay despite all this it still happens
right
people do object at weddings maybe not
people
but i've heard about dogs doing it for
whatever reason
the objecting canine is usually a husky
the story goes that when the minister
pauses to see if anyone objects
the groom's husky howls to fill in the
awkward silence
huskies do like to sing and i can't see
man's best friend not wanting to share
his pal
but this story crops up a little too
often to be believable
it's pretty weird for so many grooms to
be bringing their dogs to their wedding
especially if it's a husky while
adorable
huskies are notoriously difficult to
train and likely to cause a disturbance
during the ceremony
no offense balto you're still a good boy
dogs do get jealous but not to the
extent that they'd speak now
in an attempt to stop a marriage but
people well that's a different story
so yeah it's possible but if a jealous
ex or in-law
tries to disrupt your wedding just let
the professionals handle it
generally whoever is performing the
wedding will pull the objector aside
explain the futility of what they're
trying to do and then
proceed as planned and most couples
today often avoid this problem
by dropping the speak now passage all
together
other wedding traditions that are
falling away include throwing rice
and throwing the bride's garter throwing
the bride's bouquet to one of the single
ladies remains popular because
well who doesn't love catching a bunch
of pretty flowers
oh not that woman over there she just
dodged it
hey not everybody wants to get married
people used to throw rice at the bride
and groom as a way to wish them good
fortune in their future family life
today people are more likely to throw
bird seed
that's because after a wedding birds
always eat their eyes
while it's thoughtful of them to help
with cleanup rice hurts their little
tummies
but birdseed perfectly harmless and
those guarders well i've been to a lot
of weddings
and have only seen the garter thing once
or twice
but it used to be very common some think
it started because people believe the
bride's wedding dress would bring them
good luck
so they used to tear pieces of it right
off the bride
whoa hands off that thing cost money
must have been what one bride was
thinking when she got the brilliant idea
to just hand over one of the guarders
holding her stockings up
much better than ruining a brand new
dress thus
that became the equivalent of throwing
the bouquet only the groom tosses that
thing to any single men
in attendance it's all just so awkward
and old-fashioned that these are fading
relics of the past
of course when you get into wedding
traditions from around the world
oh does it get interesting